Claude in PowerPoint is a powerful AI
agent that reads your slide master,
layouts, fonts, and color scheme.
Then builds and edits slides [music]
that stay on brand.
Everything you build manually, Claude
can help with.
Describe what you need, and Claude
[music] generates slides using your
template.
Select a slide and tell Claude what to
change. Convert bullets into diagrams
and native charts you can edit directly.
Claude knows [music] which slide and
object you have selected, so you can
point it to exactly what you'd like
changed.
You can also upload additional files
using the plus button to give Claude
more context.
Let's start by generating an entire
presentation from scratch.
We have a branded template loaded with
our slide master, layouts, and color
scheme [music] already in place.
We'll give Claude a clear description of
what we need.
Create a 10-slide deck assessing the
fintech industry in this template.
>> [music]
>> Cover market size and growth, key
segments, major players, regulatory
landscape, [music] emerging trends, and
investment outlook.
Use a data-driven analyst tone.
Claude reads the template and generates
a full deck structure.
It picks up the correct title slide
layout, [music] section headers, and
content layouts from the slide master.
The fonts, colors, and spacing [music]
all match the template. No off-brand
elements.
Claude will ask permission before making
changes.
>> [music]
>> You can either review every change or
let Claude make any necessary edits.
Claude also tells you where it pulled
the data from.
The generated deck includes a title
slide,
>> [music]
>> an executive summary, market size,
regulatory environment, and competitive
landscape slides, along with deep dives
into emerging trends, risks, and
challenges.
That's a structured first draft from a
single prompt. The slide order, content
hierarchy, and template formatting are
all in place.
Now we can focus on refining the
substance instead of building the
scaffolding.
The executive summary slide has six
bullet points.
That's too many for an audience to
absorb at a glance. [music]
We can ask Claude, "Restructure the
executive summary as three key
takeaways, each with a bold headline and
one supporting [music] sentence."
Claude rewrites the slide content while
keeping the same layout.
The formatting stays consistent with the
rest of the deck.
It distills six bullets into three main
bullets for an exact audience and
[music] makes them easier to read and
digest.
Now, let's look at the overall flow.
Slides four and five, key market
segments and segment deep dive, [music]
overlap significantly.
Both cover payments, lending, and
embedded finance.
We can ask Claude,
>> [music]
>> "Combine slides four and five into a
single slide that shows the revenue
breakdown by segment alongside the key
growth metrics for each."
Claude merges the content, keeps the
projected revenue figures from slide
four,
>> [music]
>> and pulls in the growth rates and
notable data points from slide five. It
consolidates two slides into one and
asks before deleting [music] the
extraneous slide.
The deck is tighter.
We can also reorder.
The regulatory slide covers open banking
mandates and real-time payments
infrastructure, both of which [music]
directly drive the growth numbers on
earlier slides.
Let's tell Claude, "Move the regulatory
landscape [music] slide to right after
market size and growth trajectory."
Claude repositions the slide, and the
deck now reads market size, regulatory
drivers, segments, then competitive
landscape.
>> [music]
>> The argument builds more logically.
>> [clears throat]
>> Each of these edits would normally
involve manual copying, reformatting,
and checking for consistency.
Claude handles the mechanical work and
keeps [music] the template intact
throughout, giving you a polished
presentation-ready deck built entirely
from a single prompt.